To make the system more unified I want to rework it like this. 
#### Affinities/Damage Types
I want a set of universal affinities which the combinations of will then create other elements/affinities. 

| Affinity | Description                                 |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Heat     | Opposite of Cold                            |
| Cold     | Opposite of Heat                            |
| Light    | Opposite of Dark                            |
| Dark     | Opposite of Light                           |
| Force    | Generic force/energy, Opposite of Void      |
| Void     | The lack of energy/force, Opposite of Force |
| Eldritch | Energy from another dimention               |
#### Combination Affinities/Damage Types

| Heat Affinities     | Recipie      | Light & Dark Affinities | Recipe        | Other Affinities | Recipe             |
| ------------------- | ------------ | ----------------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ------------------ |
| Void                | Heat + Cold  | Corruption              | Light + Dark  | Poison           | Water + Curruption |
| Plasma              | Heat + Light | Air                     | Light + Force | Toxin            | Air + Poison       |
| Magma               | Heat + Dark  | Illusion                | Light + Void  | Acid             | Water + Poison     |
| Fire                | Heat + Force | Gravity                 | Dark + Force  | Venom            | Fire + Poison      |
| Radiation           | Heat + Void  | Abyss                   | Dark + Void   | Blight           | Earth + Curruption |
| **Cold Affinities** | **Recipe**   | Null                    | Force + Void  | Disease          | Poison + Blight    |
| Crystal             | Cold + Light | **Other Affinities**    | **Recipe**    | Rot              | Blight + Water     |
| Earth               | Cold + Dark  | Obsidian                | Magma + Cold  | Vacuum           | Void + Air         |
| Water               | Cold + Force | Ash                     | Fire + Void   | Dust             | Earth + Air        |
| Ice                 | Cold + Void  | Lightning               | Plasma + Air  | Miasma           | Toxin + Blight     |
|                     |              | Thunder                 | Force + Air   |                  |                    |
#### Gods and Planets
Right now I am just using the planets in our own solar system and their moons but I want to change it, I would like there to be my own solar system that everything takes place in. Each planet would be an ancient or major deity and the gods/fiends would be their moons, that way I can just create planets and moons that fit the themeing I want. 

**Galaxy**
Everything orbits a massive Black Hole which is the center of the Galaxy, none of the other Galaxies matter because they are far too far away. 
- **Solar System 1 (Main), has all elements**
	- **Mapping:** Sun - Planet 1 - Planet 2 - Planet 3 - Planet 4 - Planet 5 - Asteroid Belt - Planet 6 - Planet 7 - Planet 8 - Planet 9 - Asteroid Belt - Planet 10
	- **Sun:** Solar Affinity. Basically just our sun.
	- **Planet 1:** Infernal Affinity. The hottest place in the solar system, acts as Hell. Has a thick Sulfur Atmosphere and sulfur oceans
	- **Planet 2:** Fire Affinity. A very hot place on one half and cold on the other similar to Mercury in the Milky Way. 
	- **Planet 3:** Water Affinity. a giant ocean of water for most of the planet, has a thick atmosphere and lots of fish/algae type life
	- **Planet 4:** Earth Affinity. basically acts as earth but with many changes, its alien but cool. Will get into the ecosystems later. 
	- **Planet 5:** Air Affinity. Very small core and multilayered atmosphere with lots of different gases with varying densities, a unique tree type grows here which is very tall and strong and animals live around them. 
	- **Asteroid Belt:** Marks the transition from the planets which can support life more easily to the more deadly ones
	- **Planet 6:** Radiant Affinity. The most reflective planet in our solar system, orbits around a central point in the opposite of planet 7, both are in the same orbit around the sun. Most of the planet is constantly lit, has oceans of mercury, silver and gallium. 
	- **Planet 7:** Necrotic Affinity. Not reflective at all, orbits a central point with planet 6. Made mostly of obsidian and opal with many other gemstones, no more volcanic activity.
	- **Planet 8:** Psychic Affinity. Very purple and covered in dense fog, very cold but the planets and animals that survive here are use lots of chemical warfare and illusions. 
	- **Planet 9:** Generic Affinity. All Runestones have to be inscribed onto material from this planet, the entire planet is made of this highly attunable material.  
	- **Asteroid Belt:** The trash from the rest of the solar system which nothing else picks up
	- **Planet 10:** Eldritch Affinity. The mysterious 10th planet which is almost never seen nor heard from, it is said to have come out of a wormhole and simply placed itself into this solar system, its not supposed to be here. The material its made out of doesn't exist anywhere else, the atmosphere is thick and the air is heavily toxic, there is remnants of plant life but nothing still alive after the transformation and it being too far away from the sun. planet is purple. 
- **Solar System 2, Fire**
	- **Mapping:** Sun 1 - Sun 2 - Sun 3 - Planet 1 - Planet 2 - Planet 3 - Planet 4
- **Solar System 3, Earth**
	- **Mapping:** Sun - Planet 1 - Planet 2 - Planet 3 - Planet 4 - Planet 5
- **Solar System 4, Water**
	- **Mapping:** Sun - Planet 1 - Planet 2 - Planet 3
- **Solar System 5, Air**
	- **Mapping:** Sun - Planet 1 - Planet 2 - Planet 3 - Planet 4 - Planet 5 - Planet 6
- **Solar System 6, Radiant**
	- **Mapping:** Sun 1 - Sun 2 - Planet 1 - Asteroid Belt - Planet 2 - Planet 3
- **Solar System 7, Necrotic**
	- **Mapping:** Black Hole - Planet 1 - Planet 2 - Asteroid Belt - Planet 3
- **Solar System 9, Physic** 
	 - **Mapping:** Sun - Planet 1 - Wormhole - Planet 2 - Wormhole - Planet 3