Each level you gain will gain you bonuses:

**Every Level** _(1,2,3,4,5,6,7,etc)_
- 2 Skill Points
- 1 Vitality Dice
- 1 Health Dice
- 1 Mana Dice

**Every 2 Levels** _(2,4,6,8,10,etc)_
- 1 Skill Tree Level
- Gain +1 Affinity in Fire, Earth, Water, or Air affinity if you have any levels in Magical path.
- Gain +2 Vitality and +1 Hp if you have any levels in the Physical path.

**Every 3 Levels** _(3,6,9,12,15,etc)_
- 1 Stat Point
- 2 Affinity Points
- 1 Proficiency Upgrade or 2 Skill Points
- Gain 1 Feat
- Gain 1 Spell if you have taken any levels in the Magical path.

**Every 8 Levels** _(8,16,24,etc)_
- 1 Bonus Action Point (BAp)
- 1 Expertise Upgrade (must already be proficient in skill) or 5 Skill Points

**Every 10 Levels** _(10,20,30,etc)_
- 1 Action Point (Ap)
## Skill Tree
Every 2 Levels, you earn 1 Skill Tree Level. This point is used to unlock new paths or progress deeper into your chosen specialties.
##### How to Progress
1. **Unlock the Path (The Root):** You must spend 1 Skill Tree Level to enter a Path (e.g., Physical, Magical). This grants an Initial Bonus.
2. **Unlock the Archetype (The Type):** Once a Path is open, spend your next point to unlock the Level 1 Perk of a specific Archetype (e.g., The Marksman).
3. **Linear Progression:** You must take Level 1 before Level 2, and Level 2 before Level 3 and so on.
4. **Sub-Levels (e.g., Level 1.5, Level 1.75):** These are optional "branches." You do not need them to reach Level 2, but you must have the preceding whole number to take them (e.g., you must have Level 1 to take Level 1.5). If there multiple optional levels on the same level you may take them in any order regardless of numbering (Level 3.5 and Level 3.75 are technically on the same level).
### 1. Physical Path
_Initial Bonus: +1 Base Melee Damage_
- **The Indomitable**
- _Each level in this Archetype reduces your Mana Die by one tier (e.g., 1d20 → 1d12 → 1d10, etc). This is retroactive and applies after all other bonuses.  (Sub-Levels do not add to this)_
    - **Level 1:** Vitality Dice is now 1d10 for all future levels.
    - **Level 2:** Vitality Dice is now 1d12 for all future levels.
	    - **Level 2.5:** Your Hit Dice is now 1d8 for all future levels.
    - **Level 3:** Vitality Dice is now 1d20 for all future levels.
	    - **Level 3.5:** Your Hit Dice is now 1d10 for all future levels.
	- **Level 4:** Gain +3 AC
		- **Level 4.5:** Gain +1 AC, you may take this Level up to 5 times.
		- **Level 4.75:** Gain +10 Vitality and +5 Hp, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
- **The Marksman**
    - **Level 1:** +1 Base Ranged Accuracy.
	    - **Level 1.5:** Gain Proficiency in 1 Melee Ranged of your choice, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
    - **Level 2:** Your Ranged attacks ignore Half-Cover.
	    - **Level 2.5:** Gain +1 Base Ranged Accuracy, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
    - **Level 3:** +5 Base Ranged Damage.
	    - **Level 3.5:** Gain Expertise 1 Melee Ranged of your choice which you are already proficient in, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
	    - **Level 3.75:** Gain +1 Base Ranged Damage, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
- **The Duelist**
    - **Level 1:** +1 Base Melee Accuracy.
	    - **Level 1.5:** Gain Proficiency in 1 Melee Weapon of your choice, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
    - **Level 2:** +3 Base Melee Damage.
	    - **Level 2.5:** Gain +1 Base Melee Accuracy, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
    - **Level 3:** Once per turn, when you reduce an enemy to 0 HP with a melee attack, you may move up to 10ft and attack a different target for free.
	    - **Level 3.5:** Gain Expertise 1 Melee Weapon of your choice which you are already proficient in, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
	    - **Level 3.75:** Gain +1 Base Melee Damage, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
### 2. Magical Path
_Initial Bonus: You learn a spell, learn the Magic Blast spell, and gain +1 to your generic affinity_
- **The Magician**
- _Each level in this Archetype reduces your Vitality Die by one tier (e.g., 1d20 → 1d12 → 1d10, etc). This is retroactive and applies after all other bonuses. (Sub-Levels do not add to this)_
	- **Level 1:** Your Mana Dice is now 1d8 for all future levels.
		- **Level 1.5:** Instantly gain +2 Affinity Points, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
		- **Level 1.75:** Learn 1 new spell, you may take this Level as many times as you wish
	- **Level 2:** Your Mana Dice is now 1d10 for all future levels.
		- **Level 2.5:** Gain +1 Base Magic Accuracy, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
	- **Level 3:** Your Mana Dice is now 1d12 for all future levels.
		-  **Level 3.5:** Gain +1 Base Magic Damage, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
	- **Level 4:** Your Mana Dice is now 1d20 for all future levels.
		- **Level 4.5:** Gain an additional 2 mana dice this level, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
		- **Level 4.75:** Gain +1 Generic Affinity, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
- **The Pyromancer**
    - **Level 1:** You gain +4 Fire Affinity. 
	    - **Level 1.5:** You gain +1 Fire Affinity, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
    - **Level 2:** Any spells you cast using the Fire affinity deal +1d4 Fire Damage.
    - **Level 3:** All spells that don't use water affinity will gain +5 Base Magic Accuracy.
- **The Geomancer**
    - **Level 1:** You gain +4 Earth Affinity.
	    - **Level 1.5:** You gain +1 Earth Affinity, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
    - **Level 2:** Any spells you cast using the Earth affinity deal +1d4 Earth Damage.
    - **Level 3:** All spells that don't use air affinity will gain +5 Base Magic Accuracy.
- **The Tidemaster**
    - **Level 1:** You gain +4 Water Affinity. 
	    -  **Level 1.5:** You gain +1 Water Affinity, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
    - **Level 2:** Any spells you cast using the Water affinity deal +1d4 Water Damage.
    - **Level 3:** All spells that don't use fire affinity will gain +5 Base Magic Accuracy.
- **The Windwalker**
    - **Level 1:** You gain +4 Air Affinity. 
	    -  **Level 1.5:** You gain +1 Air Affinity, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
    - **Level 2:** Any spells you cast using the Air affinity deal +1d4 Air Damage.
    - **Level 3:** All spells that don't use earth affinity will gain +5 Base Magic Accuracy
- **The Priest**
    - **Level 1:** You gain +4 Radiant Affinity. 
	    -  **Level 1.5:** You gain +1 Radiant Affinity, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
    - **Level 2:** Any spells you cast using the Radiant affinity deal +1d4 Air Damage.
    - **Level 3:** All spells that don't use necrotic affinity will gain +5 Base Magic Accuracy.
- **The Necromancer**
    - **Level 1:** You gain +4 Necrotic Affinity. 
	    -  **Level 1.5:** You gain +1 Necrotic Affinity, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
    - **Level 2:** Any spells you cast using the Necrotic affinity deal +1d4 Air Damage.
    - **Level 3:** All spells that don't use radiant affinity will gain +5 Base Magic Accuracy.
- **The Jack**
	- **Level 1:** Gain +1 affinity in Fire, Earth, Water, and Air.
		- **Level 1.5:** You gain +1 affinity in Fire and Water or Earth and Air, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
	- **Level 2:** Gain +1 affinity in Radiant, Necrotic, and Physic.
		- **Level 2.5:** Gain +1 in either Radiant and Necrotic or +2 in Physic affinity.
	- **Level 3:** Gain +3 Affinity Points this level and +1 on every subsequent level.
- **The Spell Specialist**
	- **Level 1:** You can upcast spells.
		- **Level 1.5:** You learn a spell, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
	- **Level 2:** You can upcast spells twice.
	- **Level 3:** You can upcast spells up to three times.
	- **Level 4:** You can upcast spells up to four times.
### 3. Utility & Professional
_Initial Bonus: +2 Skill Points_
- **Scholar**
    - **Level 1:** Gain an additional 1 Skill Point on all future levels (if you are over level 5 when you gain this perk instantly gain +10 Skill Points).
    - **Level 2:** Gain an extra proficiency (or 3 Skill Points) each time you gain an proficiency.
    - **Level 3:** Gain an extra expertise (or 5 Skill Points) each time you gain an expertise.
	    - **Level 3.5:** Instantly gain +2 Skill Points and +1 Stat Point, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
	- **Level 4:** Gain an extra feat whenever you gain a feat.
- **Scoundrel**
    - **Level 1:** Gain +2 to Initiative.
    - **Level 2:** During the first round of initiative all attacks gain +1d4 damage of their respective type.
    - **Level 3:** Gain +30 movement speed and +1 Ap on the first round of initiative.
	    - **Level 3.5:** Gain +1 Initiative, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
- **Rune Master**
	- **Level 1:** You can now use/activate runes.
	- **Level 2:** Decrease the mana cost of runes by -10% (rounding up).
	- **Level 3:** +2 Bonus on Runic DC Checks.
		- **Level 3.5:** +1 on Runic DC Checks, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
	- **Level 4:** Decrease runic circle level requirements by half (rounding up).
- **Monster Specialist**
	- **Slime Rancher**
	- *You may collect up to 1d4 jars of slime per day from a slime without injuring it.*
		- **Level 1:** When you encounter a slime you may force it to make a Wis Save (DC 10 + Affinity of Slime), on a failed save it becomes docile and will no longer attack you unless you attack it first. 
		- **Level 2:** You may force two slimes to make a Con Save (DC = 10 + Affinity of Slime) to breed making new slimes. For more information on slime breeding see [[1.7.2.1 Slimes]].
		- **Level 3:** When you make a check to harvest slime you may use 1d6 instead of 1d4.
		- **Level 4:** Your slime sells for 10% more.
		- **Level 5:** You may force slimes of different types to breed, the DC check will use both affinities. 
	- **Monster Hunter**
	- *You deal +1 damage against all monsters (non humanoids)*
		- **Level 1:** You deal +1 damage against all monsters (non humanoids), you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
		- **Level 2:** Monsters (non humanoids) have -1 to attack rolls against you.
	- **Human Hunter**
	- *You deal +1 damage against all humanoids, you may not take this level unless you are of an Evil alignment*
		- **Level 1:** You deal +1 damage against all humanoids, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.
		- **Level 2:** Humanoids have -1 to attack rolls against you.
### 4. Racial Path
_Initial Bonus: Unlock Tier 1 Racial Ability_
- **Bloodline Evolution**
    - **Level 1:** Unlock Tier 2 Racial Ability
    - **Level 2:** Unlock Tier 3 Racial Ability.
    - **Level 3:** Unlock Tier 4 Racial Ability.
    - **Level 4:** Unlock Tier 5 Racial Ability.
    - **Level 5:** Unlock Tier 6 Racial Ability.
    - **Level 6:** Unlock Tier 7 Racial Ability.
    - **Level 7:** Unlock Tier 8 Racial Ability.
    - **Level 8:** Unlock Tier 9 Racial Ability.
    - **Level 9:** Unlock Tier 10 Racial Ability.
- **General Evolution**
	- **Level 1:** Gain 30 ft of Darkvision (you can see in the dark but only in black and white).
		- _Unlike most sub-levels the following sub-levels must be taken in order._
		- **Level 1.1:** Your Darkvision is now 60 ft.
		- **Level 1.2:** Your Darkvision is now 90 ft.
		- **Level 1.3:** Your Darkvision can now see through magical darkness.
		- **Level 1.4:** Your Darkvision can now see in color.
	- **Level 2:** Gain +1 to initiative.
	- **Level 3:** You are immune to the Threatened condition. 
	- **Level 4:** You are immune to the Surprised condition and gain +3 to initiative. 
	- **Level 5:** Your movement speed increases by +10 ft.
		- **Level 5.5:** Your movement speed increases by 5 ft, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
	- **Level 6:** You gain an additional Skill Tree Level every level when you would not normally gain one (levels 3,5,7, etc).
### 5. Pact Path
_Initial Bonus: Access to Low-Level Pacts (You may make pacts with any deity of any type at level 1 of the Pact Path but you will only have access to their Tier 1 Pacts)_
- **The Pact Taker**
	- **Level 1:** You may form pacts with deities with whom you have already failed 3+ pacts with.
	- **Level 2:** Pact periods are extended by 20% (rounding down to the day with a minimum bonus of +1 day).
	- **Level 3:** The Punishment Period from failing a pact is reduced by 50% (rounding down to the day with a minimum bonus of -1 day).
	- **Level 4:** You may remove 1 permanent punishment you have as a consequence from failing a pact, you may take this Level as many times as you wish. 
- **The Beacon**
- *Form pacts with Gods of good and law. If you take a level in The Beacon you may not take levels in The Reaper.*
    - **Level 1:** Gain access to Tier 2 pacts with Gods.
    - **Level 2:** Gain access to Tier 3 pacts with Gods.
    - **Level 3:** Gain access to Tier 4 pacts with Gods.
    - **Level 4:** Gain access to Tier 5 pacts with Gods.
- **The Occultist**
- *Form pacts with Ancient neutral beings*
    - **Level 1:** Gain access to Tier 2 pacts with Ancients.
    - **Level 2:** Gain access to Tier 3 pacts with Ancients.
    - **Level 3:** Gain access to Tier 4 pacts with Ancients.
    - **Level 4:** Gain access to Tier 5 pacts with Ancients.
- **The Reaper**
- *Form pacts with evil fiendish creatures. If you take a level in The Reaper you may not take levels in The Beacon.*
    - **Level 1:** Gain access to Tier 2 pacts with Fiends.
    - **Level 2:** Gain access to Tier 3 pacts with Fiends.
    - **Level 3:** Gain access to Tier 4 pacts with Fiends.
    - **Level 4:** Gain access to Tier 5 pacts with Fiends.
- **The Eldritch Horror**
- *Use otherworldly power to make yourself stronger. If you take a level in Eldritch Horror you may no longer take levels in The Beacon, The Occultist, or The Reaper and all levels previously taken in them will be lost.*
	- **Level 1:** Learn the spell Eldritch Blast.
		- **Level 1.5:** Gain +2 Eldritch Affinity, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.  
	- **Level 2:** Your Eldritch Blast deals 3 damage instead of 1. Your veins glow a faint purple under your skin while using magic.
		- **Level 2.5:** Gain +20 ft of True Sight and +5 ft movement speed.
	- **Level 3:** Your Eldritch Blast's range increases by 60 ft. Your eyes glow a faint purple while using magic. 
		- **Level 3.5:** Eldritch Affinity can now be upgraded with Affp.
	- **Level 4:** Your Eldritch Blast now costs 1 mana. You may learn 1 spell. 
	- **Level 5:** Learn the spell Eldritch Explosion. Your skin becomes cold to the touch at all times.
		- *The following Sub-levels must be taken in order.*
		- **Level 5.1:** Gain +20 ft fly speed (dark energy surrounds you and lifts you).
		- **Level 5.2:** Gain +20 ft fly speed. Creatures within 10 ft of you while you are flying have disadvantage on attack rolls against you.
		- **Level 5.3:** Learn the spell Eldritch Tentacle. 
		- **Level 5.4:** Gain +5 ft fly speed, you may take this Level as many times as you wish.  
	- *You may not take levels beyond this point if you are of a good alignment. You may change your alignment to neutral or evil at this point but you must act the part.*
	- **Level 6:** You may spend a Bonus Action (BAp) with any attack (not aoe) to infuse it with Eldritch Energy which changes the damage type and affinity (for spells) to Eldritch. On hit target gains the Eldritch Curse condition for 2 turns. 
		- **Level 6.5:** When targets gain the Eldritch Curse condition from one of your attacks they also take 5 eldritch damage at the start of each turn.
	- **Level 7:** Your Eldritch Blast deals 8 damage instead of 3. You become thinner and more frail looking, your eyes become sunken and hollow, lose 1 to your STR and CON scores. 
	- **Level 8:** Your Eldritch Blast fires 3 beams as a base instead of 1. You may learn 1 spell. Your voice becomes frail and scratchy, lose 1 to your CHAR score. 
	- **Level 9:** You may choose which creatures are or aren't affected by your Eldritch Explosion spell whom are in the radius. Your shadows lag behind your movements be a second.
	- **Level 10:** The Unknown One has noticed your presence. You have advantage on Intimidation checks and gain +5 to Intimidation. All creatures who have pacts with deities will view you as a monster/danger who should be killed. Your Alignment changes to Evil if it is not already. You can no longer be resurrected by traditional means.
	- **Level 11:** Your Eldritch spells deal double damage. Gain +5 Eldritch Affinity. You may learn 1 spell. 
	- **Level 12:** When you deal more than 20 Eldritch damage at once with a single attack the target must make a STR save (DC 10 + Eldritch Affinity) or be knocked prone. 
	- **Level 13:** When you inflict Eldritch Curse the duration is doubled and it now does 5 eldritch damage at the start of each turn (if you have Level 6.5 damage is increased to 20).
	- **Level 14:** Learn the spell Eldritch Shadow. Damage doubling from Eldritch Shadow stacks with Level 11. 
	- **Level 15:** The Unknown One is pleased with your performance. Whenever you would deal Eldritch damage to Vitality you may choose to deal half of that damage to Health. 
	- **Level 16:** When you die you will come back to life after 24 hours. Your body will regenerate and look the same as you did before but slightly more frail. You are now considered an undead creature. You no longer age. As an undead you gain +5 to your Necrotic and Eldritch Affinities and when you would normally make a roll with your Eldritch Affinity you may also add your Necrotic affinity. You may resurrect once every week, if you die again during the cool down period you are dead permanently. As an undead you suffer a -10 penalty on persuasion rolls against creatures of a good or Neutral alignment. 
	- **Level 17:** You may now add your Generic Affinity to things which normally use Eldritch Affinity only. You may learn 1 spell. 
	- **Level 18:** When you deal Eldritch Damage the damage is doubled (stacks with Levels 11 and 14).
	- **Level 19:** You're race is now considered a Litch. If you have made it to this point without dying you are now considered an undead and immediately gain +10 Eldritch Affinity (you do not gain this bonus if you have resurrected before). You may now resurrect once a day instead of once a week and resurrection takes 3 hours instead of 24. 
	- **Level 20:** The Unknown One considers you one of his own. You are now capable of dealing damage to deities. All creatures will view you as a monster/danger which needs to be killed. You are considered the pinnacle of Absolute Evil.  When you deal Eldritch Damage the damage is doubled (stacks with Levels 11, 14, and 18). You may change the Affinity and Damage type of any spell you know into Eldritch. 
## Feats
A feat is a special ability you gain as you level up. 

Types of Feats: 
- Passive: A feat that is always active
- Conditional: A passive feat which is only active during some conditions
- Active: An active use ability or skill, these can be actions, bonus actions, reactions, or free actions

| Name                | Type          | Effect/Description                                                                                                                       | Prerequisites        |
| ------------------- | ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| Toughness           | Passive       | Gain +1 HP and +1 Vit per level (Retroactive).                                                                                           | None                 |
| Quick Draw          | Active (Free) | You can stow and draw weapons as a Free Action.                                                                                          | Dex 12               |
| Heavy Hitter        | Conditional   | When using a two-handed weapon, add +2 to Melee Damage.                                                                                  | Str 14               |
| Defensive Duelist   | Active (Rp)   | Add your Proficiency Bonus to AC against one melee attack.                                                                               | Duelist Lvl 1        |
| Point Blank Shot    | Conditional   | You do not have disadvantage on Ranged attacks within 5ft of an enemy.                                                                   | Marksman Lvl 1       |
| Great Cleave        | Conditional   | If you kill an enemy, your next attack this turn deals +3 damage.                                                                        | Str 16               |
| Shield Master       | Conditional   | Add +2 to Dex Saving Throws while using a shield.                                                                                        | Str 12               |
| Marathon Runner     | Passive       | Increase base Speed by +5ft.                                                                                                             | Con 12               |
| Grappler            | Passive       | You have advantage on Athletics checks to grapple.                                                                                       | Str 14               |
| Steady Aim          | Conditional   | If you don't move this turn, gain +2 Accuracy on your next shot.                                                                         | Marksman Lvl 1       |
| Second Wind         | Active (BAp)  | Heal HP equal to your Hit Dice once per combat.                                                                                          | Con 14               |
| Brutal Critical     | Passive       | Your critical hits deal an additional +1d8 damage.                                                                                       | Level 6              |
| Dual Wielder        | Conditional   | While wielding two weapons at once gain +2 to all attack rolls using those weapons                                                       | Dex 14               |
| Mobile              | Conditional   | After you make a melee attack, you don't provoke reactions from that target for this round.                                              | Speed 30+            |
| Sentinel            | Active (Rp)   | When a creature within 5ft attacks an ally, you can attack that creature.                                                                | Str 12               |
| Vault               | Active (Ap)   | Move 10ft over an obstacle or enemy without an Athletics check or penalties to movement.                                                 | Dex 14               |
| Armor Training      | Passive       | While wearing heavy or medium armor gain +1 AC.                                                                                          | Str 13               |
| Brawler             | Passive       | Your unarmed strikes damage go up by a dice tier, you may take this Feat up to 3 times.                                                  | Str 14               |
| Distant Shot        | Passive       | Your Ranged weapon's maximum range is increased by 50%.                                                                                  | Marksman Lvl 2       |
| Charging Strike     | Conditional   | If you move at least 15ft in a straight line to melee attack; deal +1d6 bludgeoning damage.                                              | Str 14               |
| Parry               | Active (Rp)   | Reduce incoming melee damage by your Str or Dex Modifier.                                                                                | Duelist Lvl 1        |
| Endurance           | Conditional   | When reduced to 0 HP, drop to 1 HP instead, once per combat.                                                                             | Indomitable Lvl 1    |
| Eagle Eye           | Passive       | You can see clearly up to 1 mile; +2 to Search and Spot checks.                                                                          | Wis 12               |
| Weapon Master       | Passive       | Choose 1 weapon type; gain +1 Accuracy with it.                                                                                          | Proficient in Weapon |
| Disarming Attack    | Conditional   | When you make a melee attack target must pass a Str Save (DC 10+StrMod) or drop their weapon.                                            | Str 14               |
| Trip Attack         | Conditional   | When you make a melee attack target must pass a Dex Save (DC 10+StrMod) or fall Prone.                                                   | Dex 14               |
| Quick Reflexes      | Passive       | You gain an additional Reaction Point (Rp)                                                                                               | Dex 16               |
| Vital Spot          | Conditional   | Deal +1d12 damage to targets that are Prone or Restrained.                                                                               | Intelligence 12      |
| Hunker Down         | Active (BAp)  | Skip your turn to gain +6 AC; Must be used at the start of your turn.                                                                    | Indomitable Lvl 2    |
| Executioner         | Conditional   | Melee attacks against creatures with less than 10% HP are always Crits.                                                                  | Duelist Lvl 3        |
| Mana Flow           | Passive       | Increase Max Mana by +2 per level (retroactive).                                                                                         | Magician Lvl 1       |
| Elemental Shield    | Active (BAp)  | Gain Resistance to a damage type that you have at least 5 affinity in until the start of your next turn.                                 | Any Affinity 5+      |
| Spell Sniper        | Passive       | Double the range of your spells.                                                                                                         | Magician Lvl 1       |
| Save or Don't Suck  | Conditional   | Spells that deal 0 damage on a save now deal half damage.                                                                                | Magician Lvl 2       |
| Firebrand           | Conditional   | If your attack spell is Fire Affinity targets must make a Con Save (DC 10+FireAffinity) or gain On Fire condition.                       | Pyromancer Lvl 1     |
| Stone Skin          | Passive       | Increase Earth Affinity by +2; gain +1 AC.                                                                                               | Geomancer Lvl 1      |
| Flowing Water       | Conditional   | Move 5ft without provoking reactions after casting a spell with Water Affinity.                                                          | Tidemaster Lvl 1     |
| Wind Rush           | Conditional   | If your attack spell is Air Affinity targets must make a Strength Save (DC 10+AirAffinity) or be pushed 5 ft away from you.              | Windwalker Lvl 1     |
| Blessed Touch       | Active (Ap)   | Heal a targets Vitality by 1d4 + Radiant Affinity.                                                                                       | Priest Lvl 1         |
| Soul Reaper         | Conditional   | Gain Mana equal to half of damage dealt with final blow when you kill a living creature with Necrotic.                                   | Necromancer Lvl 1    |
| Careful Spells      | Passive       | Allies automatically pass saves against your AOE spells.                                                                                 | Magician Lvl 2       |
| Quick Spells        | Active        | Change a spell's casting time from 1 Ap to 1 BAp for a attack.                                                                           | Magician Lvl 3       |
| Twin Cast           | Active        | Spend double Mana to hit two targets with a single-target spell.                                                                         | Magician Lvl 3       |
| Affinity Master     | Passive       | Choose one Affinity; increase it by +3.                                                                                                  | Level 6              |
| Static Discharge    | Conditional   | If you take damage, your next Lightning spell deals +1d6.                                                                                | Lightning Aff 3+     |
| Vampiric Link       | Conditional   | Heal 2 HP every time you deal Necrotic damage.                                                                                           | Necromancer Lvl 2    |
| Mind Spike          | Conditional   | Psychic spells can optionally do their damage to Vitality.                                                                               | Psychic Aff 5+       |
| Mana Well           | Active (BAp)  | Recover 1d10 Mana, once per combat.                                                                                                      | Magician Lvl 2       |
| Explosive Power     | Conditional   | Your spells deal +5 force damage if they hit 3 or more targets.                                                                          | Magician Lvl 3       |
| Lingering Shadow    | Conditional   | Necrotic spells leave a 5ft cloud that deals 5 Necrotic Damage for 1 round where they land at the start of targets turn.                 | Necromancer Lvl 3    |
| Chain Lightning     | Passive       | Lightning spells can jump to 1 secondary target within 5ft.                                                                              | Level 9              |
| Gravity Well        | Conditional   | Earth spells pull the target (If they fail a DC 10+EarthAff Str Save) 5ft toward the center of the impact (target must be within 20 ft). | Geomancer Lvl 2      |
| Holy Radiance       | Passive       | Undead take +1d6 extra damage from your Radiant spells.                                                                                  | Priest Lvl 1         |
| Mana Burn           | Active (Ap)   | Target must make a Wis Save (DC 10+GenericAff) on fail they take force damage equal to half their current Mana.                          | Intelligence 18      |
| Aura of Protection  | Passive       | Allies within 10ft gain +2 to all Saving Throws.                                                                                         | Priest Lvl 1         |
| Arcane Overload     | Active (BAp)  | Next spell cast deals Max Damage; take 1d10 True damage.                                                                                 | Magician Lvl 4       |
| Skill Expert        | Passive       | Gain Proficiency in one skill and +1 Stat Point. You may take this feat as many times as you want.                                       | None                 |
| Linguist            | Passive       | Learn 3 additional languages.                                                                                                            | Int 12               |
| Investigator        | Passive       | Gain +3 to Spot and Search checks.                                                                                                       | Scholar Lvl 1        |
| Silver Tongue       | Active (Free) | If you roll below a 10 on any Persuasion, Deception, or Intimidation roll you may reroll. You must use the new result.                   | Charisma 14          |
| Infiltrator         | Conditional   | You have double advantage on Stealth checks in dim light.                                                                                | Scoundrel Lvl 1      |
| Fast Hands          | Passive       | You gain a Bonus Action Point.                                                                                                           | Scoundrel Lvl 2      |
| Jack of All Trades  | Passive       | Add half Proficiency Bonus to skills you aren't proficient in.                                                                           | Scholar Lvl 3        |
| Medic               | Passive       | Gain Expertise in Medicine and +3 to Medicine rolls.                                                                                     | Medicine Prof.       |
| Dungeon Delver      | Passive       | Advantage on finding traps and Lesser Resistance to damage from traps.                                                                   | None                 |
| Trader              | Passive       | Gain Expertise in Barter skill and +3 to Barter rolls.                                                                                   | Charisma 12          |
| Observant           | Passive       | +5 to passive Search and Spot rolls.                                                                                                     | Wisdom 14            |
| Master of Disguise  | Passive       | Advantage on Deception checks to pass as someone else.                                                                                   | Scoundrel Lvl 1      |
| Historian           | Passive       | When you fail a History check, you can reroll it once.                                                                                   | Scholar Lvl 1        |
| Acrobat             | Passive       | You take half damage from falling and gain proficiency in Acrobatics skill.                                                              | Dex 14               |
| Iron Will           | Passive       | Gain +4 to Wisdom Saving Throws.                                                                                                         | Level 9              |
| Cursed Blood        | Conditional   | When hit by melee, the attacker takes 1d4 Necrotic dmg.                                                                                  | Reaper Lvl 1         |
| Divinely Favored    | Active (BAp)  | Reroll one d20 roll. Once per Long Rest.                                                                                                 | Beacon Lvl 1         |
| Forbidden Knowledge | Passive       | Gain +5 to Arcana but -2 to Social Insight.                                                                                              | Occultist Lvl 1      |
| Darkness Seer       | Passive       | You can see through magical and non-magical darkness up to 60 ft.                                                                        | Reaper Lvl 2         |
| Giant's Strength    | Passive       | Your Size is considered one tier larger for carrying/lifting/grappling.                                                                  | Str 18               |
| Cat’s Grace         | Passive       | You never take damage from falls under 30ft and are no longer knocked prone from falling.                                                | Dex 18               |
| Hardened Soul       | Passive       | You are immune to the Frightened, Despair, and Demoralized conditions.                                                                   | Level 12             |
| Eternal Mana        | Passive       | If you are at below 10 mana gain 2 mana. This can activate once every 6 seconds.                                                         | Magician Lvl 3       |
| Titan’s Grip        | Passive       | You can hold a Two-Handed weapon in one hand and duel wield with it.                                                                     | Str 20               |
| Unstoppable Force   | Passive       | You are immune to slowed and paralyzed conditions.                                                                                       | Indomitable Lvl 3    |
| Overdrive           | Active (BAp)  | Gain +1 Ap next turn, then lose all your BAp for 2 turns.                                                                                | Level 15             |
| Demonic Bargain     | Active (BAp)  | Sacrifice 10 Vitality or 5 HP to gain 20 Mana.                                                                                           | Reaper Lvl 3         |
| 1,000 Paper Cuts    | Conditional   | Deal +10 true damage to creatures that have more than 500 max health.                                                                    | Level 21             |
| Apex Predator       | Conditional   | If you are first in initiative, your first attack is a guaranteed crit.                                                                  | Scoundrel Lvl 3      |
