On your turn, you may take the following types of actions, depending on how many points you have available:

- Action (AP): Your main combat or ability use. You may take as many actions per turn as you have Action Points (AP). Common actions (actions all characters can take) include:
	- Attack - Make a melee or ranged weapon attack. Damage is based on weapon and stats.
	- Cast a Spell - Use a known spell, spending Mana and meeting any requirements.
	- Use Item - Use a potion, activate a magic item, etc.
	- Dash - Move an additional distance equal to your Base Movement Speed.
	- Disengage - Avoid provoking opportunity attacks for the rest of your turn.
	- Dodge - Until your next turn, all attacks against you are at disadvantage and you make DEX saves with advantage.
	- Help - Grant an ally within 5 ft advantage on their next ability check or attack.
	- Hide - Make a Stealth check to become hidden. Must be in light cover or darkness.
	- Search - Make a Search check to find traps, hidden creatures, etc.
	- Ready an Action - Hold a specific action until a trigger occurs (See [[2.2.3 Ready Actions (Holding an Action)]]).
	- Grapple - Attempt to grab a creature within 5 ft. Roll Athletics vs target’s Athletics or Acrobatics. Success: target becomes Grappled (Speed 0 and all attacks made against creature have advantage).
	- Shove - Attempt to push a creature within 5 ft. Roll Athletics vs target’s Athletics or Acrobatics. Success: target is knocked prone (See [[2.5 Conditions and Status Effects]]) and pushed 5 ft.
	- Interact with the Environment - Pull levers, flip switches, shove statues, etc

- Bonus Action (BAP): A secondary action, granted by specific class features, spells, or abilities. You may use as many bonus actions as you have Bonus Action Points (BAP). Examples include (but are not limited to):
	- Activating a subclass/racial/feat ability 
	- Casting a spell labeled as a bonus action
	- Using a class ability like Rage

- Reaction (RP): Used outside of your turn in response to specific triggers (e.g., opportunity attacks, spell triggers, etc.). You may take a number of reactions equal to your Reaction Points (RP). Examples include (but are not limited to):
	- Opportunity Attack - When a creature leaves your melee range. Make one melee attack.
	- Counterspell - Interrupt a spell being cast.
	- Trigger Abilities - Any ability that uses the phrase "as a reaction."

- Movement: You may move up to your Speed each turn. Movement can be split around actions. Dashing will cost an AP and allow you to move an additional distance equal to your Base Movement Speed, it is possible to take this action multiple times in one turn.